# Customer-Segmentation
Welcome to our Customer Segmentation Project! Uncover distinct customer segments with data science techniques. Explore Jupyter notebooks, preprocessing scripts, and clustering algorithms. Visualizations provide insights. Clone, run scripts, and contribute to effective customer segmentation!

Customer segmentation is the process of dividing customers into groups based on shared characteristics. The objective of this customer segmentation project is to use machine learning techniques to categorize online retail customers into distinct and meaningful groups based on their purchasing behavior and characteristics. The goal is to enhance the understanding of the customer base, identify trends and behaviors, and develop personalized marketing efforts for each segment. This segmentation will, in turn, lead to improved customer satisfaction and increased profitability for the online retail business. 

Problem Statement: 
The challenge of this project is to effectively analyze the transactional trends of different products in a particular time frame that are bought by people residing in different locations. So, coming to why segment customers? From a business perspective, mainly to get a competitive market edge and moreover putting people into categories is only one aspect of consumer segmentation. Customers are better understood when they are segmented, and you can use this knowledge to develop content that addresses the demands and difficulties of each section.
